And just give it a render function that's responsible for the output.
So in our plugin folder, let's jump into our index file and let's make a few adjustments so we no longer
just need to load a JavaScript file with this exact action hook instead of just loading a file, we
now want to actually register a block type from within.
So we do want to use a different action hook.
Let's change this instead of on Q Block Ed assets to just init.
OK, so that's going to call admin assets now in our admin assets function instead of actually loading
the JavaScript file directly, let's just register a script with this short name and then we can reference
it in just a moment.
So what I mean by this, instead of calling the function WP on Q script, let's change this to WP Register
script so this won't load a file anywhere.
But now we have this name that we can reference.
So now still in this function, but just right below this line right about here, let's do this, let's
leverage a WordPress function called register underscore block, underscore type parentheses to call
it, and we're going to give it to arguments.
The first argument needs to be so strong a text that exact matching namespace and block type name that
we already used back in our JavaScript.
So to be sure, you could actually just back in JavaScript, copy this exact namespace slash block type
name, just copy that into your clipboard back and be that is our value for the first argument.
OK, this second argument, instead of the placeholder B is an array of options.
So array parentheses inside there we can drop down.
Let's give this array two items.
So the first is a property with this exact name of Ed Underscore script.
So this is just our way of telling WordPress which JavaScript file to load for this block type.
So this is the name of the array item and then equal greater than squished together.
This will be the value.
So this would just be a string of text.
You can see my short name for that script that we've registered is our new block type.
So that's what we want here at the end of that line, comma.
We want one more item in this array of options.
And this is the really interesting one.
It needs to be named render underscore callback.
And now we just give it a function that's responsible for returning a bit of HTML.
Right, that the general public will see on the front end of our website.
So let's say Arae.
The first item is dollar.
Sign this.
Right.
We're just using the array callable syntax and now let's make up a method name.
How about we just call it the HTML?
OK, now let's just go create a function with that name still within our class, but below this function,
let's say function, the HTML parentheses, curly brackets inside the body of this new function, we
would just want to return.
Let's have a string of text, be sure to have a semicolon there and let's just have a paragraph.
So HTML opening and closing and let's say today the sky is blank and the grass is blank only we want
these to be real values.
So when WordPress calls our function, it's going to pass into it everything we need.
In other words, the attributes from that instance of the block.
Right.
Whatever values the user typed in.
So we want to have a parameter here to receive that.
You can name it anything, but let's name it attributes.
So dollar sign attributes.
And now we can just use that.
Now it's just a matter of making these values dynamic by looking inside the attributes.
So let's do this.
Let's close out the string of text here and then concatenate on something.
And then after the placeholder we would concatenate on another string of text like this instead of X.
What we would actually want here is just dollar sign attributes.
It's an array, so square brackets to look inside it.
And we're interested in the item that's named quotes sky color.
OK, let's do the same thing for this, the grass color so we can close out that string of text here,
concatenate on something after the X, we would concatenate on another string of text the period for
the end of the sentence and the closing HTML tag instead of the actual X.
What we would want is dollar sign attributes.
It's an array and we want grass color.
And before we save this, just so we can make sure that it's actually working coming from our new code,
why don't we end it with three exclamations just so it's obvious.
Let's go ahead and save it and test it out.
So back in the admin area, we will.
We need to delete that old instance of the block because it was using the old JavaScript way now that
we're using.
We will never run into that problem again, though.
So let's insert a new instance of it.
Let's say the sky is light gray and the grass is green.
Let's save that.
And if we go view it on the front end.
Perfect, we see the three exclamations at the end.
Now, here's why this is so cool.
If we make changes to this function so we could say today the sky is completely blank and maybe instead
of a paragraph, if we make it a heading level one and we save that, we don't even need to go back
into the admin ed screen and receive the post if we just refresh our front end.
Awesome, it's just immediately updated because WordPress is using our function on the fly.
I think the easiest way to understand what's going on is to look at the database again.
If your WordPress is using post revisions, you will need to go back a page, make sure you're on the
last page and click the very last item.
So now this is all this getting saved into the database.
There is no string of text or content.
It's just a comment saying which type of block type we're using.
And then the object with our attribute values.
That's it.
Now there's pros and cons to everything.
So what's the drawback of this approach?
Well, perhaps it takes an extra two milliseconds for WordPress to run our function instead of just
loading a static string of text from the database.
But I would argue that if you're being smart about caching on your site, that's not an issue.
So long story short, I'm a huge fan of this approach.
Just a few quick notes before we close out this lesson.
You could use the escape underscore HTML function to escape these dynamic values.
However, it's not uncommon in the history of WordPress to give the admin owner of the site the ability
to type in HTML into their edit screen.
So that's your own judgment call in this case?
We don't really need the admin to be able to enter HTML into those fields, so I probably would wrap
this in escape underscore HTML.
OK, next, I find that writing and concatenating like this is super awkward.
So what we can do instead is this.
You can do this with me.
Go ahead.
And completely empty out the body of this function and instead let's say Obbie underscore start and
then we're going to exit.
And then right here we can have some HTML.
And then on a new line, let's go back into PHP and return.
Obbie underscore git underscore clean semicolon.
So Obbie stands for output buffer and essentially anything that comes after this.
But before this, well that's what's going to get returned in our function.
So where the X is, we can just type regular old HTML now.
So maybe we want to head in level three and to save time.
Let me type this out and you can pause the video if you want to.
The point is, is that now instead of concatenating a long string together, we're just writing out
HTML.
When we want to do something dynamic, we're just dropping in to be.
So it's up to you to use the attributes however you see fit.
But if I save that and refresh the front end, it still works perfectly.
And that is going to bring this lesson to a close.
Now that we understand the very basics of setting up a block type and we know how to connect the dots
between JavaScript and P, I think we're ready to actually start building interesting block types.
So let's look at a sneak peek preview of what we're going to build together in our very next lesson.
We're going to begin working on these real block types.
So this is a quiz or multiple choice type of block type where you give a question answers.
That's the editor version.
This is what it looks like on the front end.
The user can get an answer wrong or get an answer correct.
OK, once we build that together, then we're going to work on this block type together called the featured
professor.
So this is what the editor version looks like.
You can choose any professor post type.
It's going to give you a live preview.
This is what it looks like on the Ed side, and this is what it looks like on the front end.
So it gives you a link that takes you to that professor's permalink.
And then on the Professor Permalink are plugin is going to look for any and all posts that are pointing
towards this professor.
So it's sort of a two way example, working with metadata, creating relationships, and we're tying
it all back in to the WordPress block.
Ed, I think this is going to be a lot of fun.
Let's keep things rolling and I'll see you in the next lesson.